# â­API How-to Guide

Azure Metrics Advisor for Equipment is a cloud-based [Azure Applied AI Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/applied-ai-services/) that uses machine-learning models to scale predictive maintenance and proactively monitor the health of your physical assets. 

## Get started: Metrics Advisor for Equipment (Project Adel) REST API 2022-07-10-preview
>**_NOTE:_**
> Metrics Advisor for Equipment (Project Adel) is currently in private preview. Some features may not be supported or have limited capabilities.
The current API version is **2022-07-10-preview**.


In the following sections you will :
  1. [(Prerequisites) Create a Metrics Advisor resource in the Azure portal.](#1-prerequisites-create-a-metrics-advisor-resource-in-the-azure-portal)
  2. [Prepare data and create a dataset.](#2-prepare-data-and-create-a-dataset)
  3. Train an Metrics Advisor for Equipment model.
  4. Evaluate the model performance and download the evaluation results.
  5. Post-process evaluation results and determine the desired alert settings.
  6. Configure and start an inference schedule.
  7. Get streaming inference results and diagnose alerts.
  8. Trigger a replay on an existing inference schedule to backfill/refresh detection results for a historical time period.



## 1. (Prerequisites) Create a Metrics Advisor resource in the Azure portal
Here, you'll learn how to create a Metrics Advisor resource in the Azure portal.

> **_NOTE:_**
> During private preview stage, Metrics Advisor for Equipment is only available in West Europe, East Europe, and UK South. Please make sure your subscription and resources are created in one of the available regions.


### Visit the Azure portal

The Azure portal is a single platform you can use to create and manage Azure services.

Let's get started:

1. Navigate to the Azure portal home page: [Azure home page](https://portal.azure.com/#home).

1. Select **Create a resource** from the Azure home page.

1. Search for and choose **Metrics Advisor** from the search bar.

1. Select the **Create** button.

Alternatively, you can reach the **Create Metrics Advisor** page 


### Create a resource

1. Next, you're going to fill out the **Create Metrics Advisor** fields with the following values:

    * **Subscription**. Select your current subscription. If you don't have one yet, you can [create an Azure subscription for free](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/cognitive-services).
    * **Resource group**. The [Azure resource group](/azure/cloud-adoption-framework/govern/resource-consistency/resource-access-management#what-is-an-azure-resource-group) that will contain your resource. You can create a new group or add it to a pre-existing group.
    * **Region**. Select West Europe, East Europe, or UK South.
    * **Name**. Enter a name for your resource. We recommend using a descriptive name, for example *YourNameMetricsAdvisor*.
    * **Pricing tier**. S0 is the only available pricing tier for now.
    * **Bring your own storage**. Choose Yes only if you need to store metrics data and detection results into your own Azure Database for PostgreSQL.

1. Confirm and select **Review + Create**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/logic-apps-tutorial/logic-app-connector-demo-two.png" alt-text="Still image showing the correct values for creating Form Recognizer resource.":::

1. Azure will run a quick validation check, after a few seconds you should see a green banner that says **Validation Passed**.

1. Once the validation banner appears, select the **Create** button from the bottom-left corner.

1. After you select **Create**, you'll be redirected to a new page that says **Deployment in progress**. The deployment could take up to 60 minutes to complete, although it normally finishes in less than 10 minutes. 

:::image type="content" source="media/logic-apps-tutorial/form-recognizer-validation.gif" alt-text="GIF showing the Azure portal validation process.":::

### Get endpoint URL and keys

1. Once the deployment is done, you'll see a message that says, **Your deployment is complete**. Then, select the **Go to resource** button.

1. Copy the **KEY** and **endpoint** values from your Metrics Advisor resource, paste them in a convenient location, such as *Microsoft Notepad*. You'll need the key and endpoint values to connect your application to the Metrics Advisor for Equipment API.

1. If your overview page doesn't have the keys and endpoint visible, you can select the **Keys and Endpoint** button under the **Resource Management** section on the left navigation bar and retrieve them there.

    :::image border="true" type="content" source="media/containers/keys-and-endpoint.png" alt-text="Still photo showing how to access resource key and endpoint URL":::

That's it! You're now ready to start scaling predictive maintenance using Azure Metrics Advisor for Equipment.

## 2. Prepare data and create a dataset